# 🔗 https://www.shopify.com/blog/automated-dropshipping

Dropshipping is a popular route to ecommerce entrepreneurship, allowing businesses to sell products directly to consumers without holding inventory. Technology and tools available in 2025 also allow stages of the dropshipping process to be automated. Automated dropshipping is an attractive way to operate a dropshipping business. It saves time, requires minimal investment, and allows you to focus more on marketing and business development. Ahead, discover the pros and cons of automated dropshipping and learn how to automate your dropshipping website. What is automated dropshipping? Automated dropshipping is when a seller outsources inventory management and order fulfillment to a third party and much of the process is handled by automation. Rather than sending orders, approving orders, and picking and packing orders manually, automated dropshipping relies on technology to handle the workflow for you. Pros and cons of automated dropshipping Pros of automated dropshipping Improved efficiency Better accuracy Less capital required Reduced costs Improved efficiency One of the biggest benefits of automating is improved efficiency. Rather than waiting on manual reviews, approvals, and communications, automated dropshipping takes everything off your plate. You set the rules, and your technology will follow suit. This means less time waiting for people to move items to the next step in the workflow. Better accuracy It s important to have accurate data when making business decisions. Data inaccuracies can lead to costly mistakes. Business automation removes a lot of manual processes, so it also mitigates mistakes that happen due to human error. This improves the quality of your data, so you can make better-informed choices. Less capital required One of the biggest benefits of dropshipping is you don t need to invest in inventory. Since your suppliers produce, hold, and ship products, you don t need to. Plus, the nature of dropshipping is everything is manufactured on a made-to-order basis so you don t need to purchase any inventory at all to start selling. Reduced costs Automated dropshipping can reduce costs in a number of ways. First, you don t lose money to data inaccuracies and human error. Additionally, automation speeds up tasks, reducing the amount of time and resources you need to invest in dropshipping operations. This creates a leaner operation and frees up capital to invest in other areas of the business. Cons of automated dropshipping Smaller profit margins More technical know-how required Less control Less flexibility for exceptions Smaller profit margins Dropshipping can be profitable if you have an effective business strategy. However, the profit margins are typically smaller than if you were to develop your own product and manage the fulfillment process hands-on. Much of the benefit of automated dropshipping is outsourcing the tedious tasks to your tech stack and a dropshipping supplier, but this convenience doesn t come without a cost. This is why dropshippers often have to sell items at scale to make a real profit. More technical know-how required Automating your dropshipping business means you need to understand how to use digital tools and technological resources. You not only have to find the right platforms to implement, you need to perform ongoing maintenance and updates. This can be a sizeable hurdle to overcome if you have minimal technical expertise. Less control When you dropship, you give up a lot of control over different aspects of your business. Your suppliers control the product and shipping, while you re hands off. Some suppliers limit customizations and branding for customer orders. Plus, third parties can make errors that are completely outside your control. Less flexibility for exceptions With product sourcing and fulfillment outsourced, dropshippers often have less ability to accommodate unique customer requests or develop original product lines. In some cases, this can leave little room for exceptions and one-offs. Plus, when you automate everything, more processes happen without manual review or intervention. How to automate a dropshipping website Here's how to dropship with the added efficiency gain of automated processes: 1. Search the Shopify App Store for automated dropshipping tools You can build, customize, and launch an automated dropshipping store with Shopify. Start your online store and then install the automated dropshipping apps that work best for your needs. There are many options for all-in-one dropshipping automation software to choose from on the Shopify App Store, including: AutoDS. Find and import dropshipping products from sites like AliExpress, Amazon, Alibaba, and more. The app automatically fulfills orders and updates tracking numbers. Dropified. Automatically send customer and order information from your Shopify store to your dropshipper. Duoplane. Work with multiple dropshipping vendors and streamline order processing with this automation tool. Fully automate your multi-supplier order flow so you can spend more time growing (and enjoying) your business. Ordoro. Choose to automatically route dropshippable orders to suppliers or split by default. 2. Streamline order processing with your supplier Perhaps the most valuable automation option when it comes to your dropshipping business is order processing. When a customer places an order on your website, that order can be automatically routed to your dropshipping supplier using an app. This way, your supplier is efficiently notified about new orders so they can start fulfillment as soon as possible. Some platforms will also work with multiple dropshipping suppliers and automatically route orders to vendors based on their availability. When you automate order processing, you reduce and even eliminate any delays, which gets products into customers  hands quicker. Some merchants sell a mix of dropshipped products and items sourced elsewhere. In this case, you can set up automations to route orders for dropshippable products to the corresponding supplier and all other items to your own internal fulfillment platform. 3. Align inventory across channels Using automation in dropshipping helps to ensure accurate inventory reporting across all the places where inventory is tracked. This will mitigate out-of-stocks and overstocks, which are costly challenges for retailers. The Duoplane app above, for example, features vendor inventory feeds, which show stock levels for each of your suppliers. This way, you can see which suppliers have plenty on hand and which are running low, so you can route your orders accordingly. 4. Optimize pricing for your business model You can automate pricing information, syncing, and optimization for your dropshipping business. For example, the Dropified app features a tool for automatically applying pricing markups. When you use automatic pricing, establish parameters that protect your profitability. You don t want to find yourself selling items at a price point where you end up losing money. Likewise, you don t want to price so high that customers won t convert. 5. Implement order tracking updates Order tracking updates are a critical part of the customer experience. It s important to let shoppers know where their package is and when they should expect to receive it. Even if you can t provide up-to-the-minute updates, proactive order tracking notifications or emails can also work. You can and should automate order tracking updates to improve the experience for your customers. Likewise, you should receive order tracking updates as well. This can help you stay on top of any delays so you can offer support quickly. AutoDS has automatic tracking number updates once your supplier provides a tracking number, the app will update it on your Shopify store. Duoplane also automatically updates shipment feeds with vendor tracking information. With these feeds, you can get a bird s-eye view of where your orders are and their current status. Dropshipping with Shopify Collective Connect with US-based Shopify brands to easily sell their products. With Shopify Collective, you can curate items from like-minded stores and ship them directly to your customers. Explore Shopify Collective