# 🔗 https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/java/

Java is a high-level, object-oriented programming language used to build applications across platforms from web and mobile apps to enterprise software. It is known for its Write Once, Run Anywhere capability, meaning code written in Java can run on any device that supports the Java Virtual Machine (JVM). Java shares similarities with other C-based languages like C++ and C#, especially in terms of syntax and structure. Its robustness, cross-platform compatibility, and strong memory management have made it a go-to language for developers worldwide for over two decades. This Java tutorial is designed for both beginners and experienced professionals, covering basic to advanced Java topics. Why Java is Used For? Java is one of the most popular and widely used programming language: Used to develop mobile apps , desktop apps , web apps , web sejavarvers , games , and enterprise-level systems . Java was invented by James Gosling and Oracle currently owns it . JDK 23 is the latest version of Java. Java's syntax is similar to C/C++. Popular platforms like LinkedIn, Amazon, and Netflix rely on Java for their back-end architecture, showcasing its stability and scalability across different environments. Popularity is so high that 3 Billion+ devices use Java across the world. Java Hello World Program Java // A Java program to print "Hello World" public class GFG { public static void main ( String args [] ) { System . out . println ( "Hello World" ); } } // Output:"Hello World" Java Basics Java basics form the foundation of your programming journey, covering essential concepts like syntax, data types, variables, loops, and conditionals. Mastering these fundamentals is key to building strong, error-free Java applications: Java Methods Java methods are reusable blocks of code that perform specific tasks and help organize your program. They improve code readability, reduce repetition, and make debugging easier: Java Arrays Java arrays are containers that store multiple values of the same data type in a single variable. They provide an efficient way to manage and access collections of data using index-based positions: Java Strings Java Strings represent sequences of characters and are widely used in text processing. They are immutable, meaning once created, their values cannot be changed: Java OOPs Concepts Java follows the Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) paradigm, which organizes code into classes and objects. Core OOP principles like inheritance, encapsulation, polymorphism, and abstraction make Java modular and scalable: Java Interfaces Java interfaces define a contract that classes must follow, specifying method signatures without implementations. They enable abstraction and support multiple inheritance in Java through a clean, structured approach: Java Collections Java Collections provide a framework for storing and manipulating groups of objects efficiently. It includes interfaces like List, Set, and Map, along with classes like ArrayList, HashSet, and HashMap: Java Exception Handling ava Exception Handling is a mechanism to handle runtime errors, ensuring the program runs smoothly without crashing. It uses keywords like try, catch, throw, throws, and finally to manage exceptions: Java Multithreading Java Multithreading allows concurrent execution of two or more threads, enabling efficient CPU utilization and faster program performance. It is commonly used for tasks like parallel processing and responsive applications: Java File Handling Java File Handling enables programs to create, read, write, and manipulate files stored on the system. It uses classes from the java.io and java.nio packages for efficient file operations: Java Streams and Lambda Expressions Java Streams and Lambda Expressions simplify data processing by enabling functional-style operations on collections. Lambdas provide concise syntax for anonymous functions, while Streams allow efficient filtering, mapping, and reduction of data: Java IO Java IO (Input/Output) provides a set of classes and streams to read and write data from various sources like files, consoles, and network connections. It is part of the java.io package and supports both byte and character streams: Java Synchronization Java Synchronization is used to control access to shared resources in multithreaded environments. It ensures that only one thread can access a critical section at a time, preventing data inconsistency: Java Regex Java Regex (Regular Expressions) allows pattern matching and text manipulation using the java.util.regex package. It is powerful for validating, searching, and replacing strings based on specific patterns: Java Networking Java Networking enables communication between devices over a network using classes from the java.net package. It supports protocols like TCP and UDP for building client-server applications and data exchange: Java Database Connectivity(JDBC) Java Memory Allocation Java Memory Allocation refers to how memory is assigned to variables, objects, and classes during program execution. It involves stack and heap memory, with the JVM managing allocation and garbage collection automatically: Java Interview Questions Prepare for Java interviews with these commonly asked questions, covering core concepts, OOP, collections, multithreading, exception handling, and frameworks like Spring and Hibernate: Best Approach to Learn Java Here s the step-by-step approach to learn and master Java efficiently and effectively: 1. Understand Java Fundamentals: Start with the basics: what Java is, how it works (JVM, JRE, JDK), and why it s platform-independent. Learn about Java s role in building desktop, web, and mobile applications. 2. Set Up the Java Environment: Install the latest JDK and configure your development environment. Use a beginner-friendly IDE like IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, or VS Code for writing and testing your code. 3. Learn Core Java Concepts: Focus on essential topics like variables, data types, operators, control structures (if-else, switch, loops), and input/output. Practice writing simple programs to strengthen your understanding. 4. Master Object-Oriented Programming (OOP): Dive into the pillars of OOP classes, objects, inheritance, polymorphism, encapsulation, and abstraction. Understand how Java handles these concepts and how to apply them effectively in real projects. 5. Explore Collections and Data Structures: Learn about Java's Collection Framework ArrayList, HashMap, Set, LinkedList, and more. Understand how to use them and when to choose one over the other. 6. Work with Exception Handling: Understand the importance of error handling in Java using try-catch blocks, finally, throw, and custom exceptions. Learn best practices for writing clean, safe code. 7. Get Comfortable with File I/O: Learn how Java reads from and writes to files using File , FileReader , BufferedReader , FileWriter , and Streams . Practice creating programs that manage and manipulate file data. 8. Understand Multithreading and Concurrency: Grasp the basics of threads, synchronization, and concurrent programming. Learn how Java handles multiple tasks simultaneously using the Thread class and ExecutorService . 9. Learn Java Libraries and APIs: Familiarize yourself with essential APIs like Java Math, Date & Time (java.time), and String manipulation. Explore popular libraries like Apache Commons, Gson, or Jackson for real-world development. 10. Build Real-World Projects: Apply your knowledge by building console apps, file management systems, or basic desktop GUIs using JavaFX or Swing. Gradually move into web development with Java Servlets, JSP, or Spring Boot. Java Program Examples Java Coding Practice Problems Java Quizzes and MCQs Important Java Projects Career & Jobs in Java 2025 Java opens doors to a wide range of tech careers across industries from enterprise software to mobile apps and cloud systems. Here s a list of top career options for professionals with Java expertise, along with their average salary ranges: Career Average Salary (INR) Per Annum Average Salary (USD) Per Annum Java Developer  400,000    1,200,000 $55,000   $100,000 Full Stack Java Developer  700,000    1,800,000 $75,000   $130,000 Backend Engineer (Java)  800,000    2,000,000 $80,000   $140,000 Android Developer (Java/Kotlin)  500,000    1,500,000 $60,000   $110,000 Java Architect  1,500,000    3,000,000 $120,000   $170,000 DevOps Engineer (Java projects)  900,000    2,200,000 $90,000   $150,000 Big Data Engineer (Java + Hadoop)  1,000,000    2,500,000 $100,000   $160,000 Automation Test Engineer (Java + Selenium)  600,000    1,400,000 $65,000   $110,000 Software Engineer (Java Spring Boot)  700,000    1,800,000 $75,000   $130,000 Java Consultant / Technical Lead  1,200,000    2,800,000 $110,000   $160,000 List of Companies Using Java These are some popular companies that use Java in thier workflow: Company Description Google Uses Java for Android development, backend services, and internal tools across products like Gmail and Google Drive. Amazon Java is widely used at Amazon for building scalable backend systems, AWS services, and e-commerce infrastructure. Netflix Java powers many of Netflix's backend microservices, helping deliver content to millions of users with high availability. Spotify Relies on Java for data processing, backend APIs, and scalable microservices that support music streaming. Airbnb Uses Java in its backend systems to handle listings, payments, and user interactions at scale. Uber Employs Java for real-time dispatch systems, geolocation services, and backend microservices. LinkedIn Java is a core language for building LinkedIn s backend architecture, handling data-intensive workloads and APIs. eBay Uses Java for high-traffic applications, auction management, and payment services. NASA Implements Java in various projects, including simulations, data analysis tools, and mission-critical software. Intel Uses Java in embedded systems, performance testing tools, and internal applications across chip development FAQs on Java Tutorial What is Java? Developed by Sun Microsystems in 1995, Java is a highly popular, object-oriented programming language. This platform independent programming language is utilized for Android development, web development, artificial intelligence, cloud applications, and much more. Why use Java ? Java is simple to understand programming language because doesn t contain concepts like : Pointers and operator overloading and it is secure and portable. What are the major concepts in Java? There are 4 major concept in Java that is abstraction, encapsulation, polymorphism, and inheritance. Along with this Java also works with three OOPs concept How Java different to C++ ? C++ JAVA C++ is platform dependent. Java is platform independent. C++ uses compiler only. Java uses compiler and interpreter both. C++ support pointers and operator overloading. Java doesn t support pointers and operator overloading concept. Why Java is so popular programming language? Java is based on object model hence it is one the popular programming language. What are the scope of Java Technologies for Web Applications? Java Technologies for Web Applications are a set of Java-based technologies that are used to develop web applications. These technologies include: Java Servlet API JavaServer Pages JavaServer Faces Enterprise JavaBeans JDBC (Java Database Connectivity) Java Messaging Service (JMS) JavaMail API JAX-WS K kartik Follow Improve Article Tags : Java Tutorials Practice Tags :