# 🔗 https://github.com/TransformerOptimus/SuperAGI

Open-source framework to build, manage and run useful Autonomous AI Agents Follow SuperAGI Connect with the Creator Share SuperAGI Repository What are we ? A dev-first open source autonomous AI agent framework enabling developers to build, manage & run useful autonomous agents. You can run concurrent agents seamlessly, extend agent capabilities with tools. The agents efficiently perform a variety of tasks and continually improve their performance with each subsequent run.   Features Provision, Spawn & Deploy Autonomous AI Agents - Create production-ready & scalable autonomous agents. - Create production-ready & scalable autonomous agents. Extend Agent Capabilities with Toolkits - Add Toolkits from our marketplace to your agent workflows. - Add Toolkits from our marketplace to your agent workflows. Graphical User Interface - Access your agents through a graphical user interface. - Access your agents through a graphical user interface. Action Console - Interact with agents by giving them input and permissions. - Interact with agents by giving them input and permissions. Multiple Vector DBs - Connect to multiple Vector DBs to enhance your agent s performance. - Connect to multiple Vector DBs to enhance your agent s performance. Performance Telemetry - Get insights into your agent s performance and optimize accordingly. - Get insights into your agent s performance and optimize accordingly. Optimized Token Usage - Control token usage to manage costs effectively. - Control token usage to manage costs effectively. Agent Memory Storage - Enable your agents to learn and adapt by storing their memory. - Enable your agents to learn and adapt by storing their memory. Models - Custom fine tuned models for business specific usecases. - Custom fine tuned models for business specific usecases. Workflows - Automate tasks with ease using ReAct LLM's predefined steps.   Toolkits Toolkits allow SuperAGI Agents to interact with external systems and third-party plugins.   Installation You can install superAGI using one of the following three approaches.   SuperAGI cloud To quickly start experimenting with agents without the hassle of setting up the system, try Superagi Cloud Visit Superagi Cloud and log in using your github account. In your account settings, go to "Model Providers" and add your API key. You're all set! Start running your agents effortlessly.   Local Open your terminal and clone the SuperAGI repository. git clone https://github.com/TransformerOptimus/SuperAGI.git Navigate to the cloned repository directory using the command: cd SuperAGI Create a copy of config_template.yaml, and name it config.yaml. Ensure that Docker is installed on your system. You can download and install it from here. Once you have Docker Desktop running, run the following command in the SuperAGI directory: a. For regular usage: docker compose -f docker-compose.yaml up --build b. If you want to use SuperAGI with Local LLMs and have GPU, run the following command: docker compose -f docker-compose-gpu.yml up --build Open your web browser and navigate to http://localhost:3000 to access SuperAGI.   Digital Ocean Deploy SuperAGI to DigitalOcean with one click. SuperAGI Architecture Agent Architecture Agent Workflow Architecture Tools Architecture ER Diagram   Resources   Need Help? Join our Discord community for support and discussions. If you have questions or encounter issues, please don't hesitate to create a new issue to get support.   Contribution We   our contributors. We re committed to fostering an open, welcoming, and safe environment in the community. If you'd like to contribute, start by reading our Contribution Guide. We expect everyone participating in the community to abide by our Code of Conduct. To get more idea on where we are heading, checkout our roadmap here. Explore some good first issues to start contributing.   Contributors   Under Development! This project is under active development and may still have issues. We appreciate your understanding and patience. If you encounter any problems, please check the open issues first. If your issue is not listed, kindly create a new issue detailing the error or problem you experienced. Thank you for your support!