# 🔗 https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-is-a-website/

A website is a collection of many web pages, and web pages are digital files that are written using HTML(HyperText Markup Language). To make your website available to every person in the world, it must be stored or hosted on a computer connected to the Internet round a clock. Such computers are known as a Web Server. The website s web pages are linked with hyperlinks and hypertext and share a common interface and design. The website might also contain some additional documents and files such as images, videos, or other digital assets. With the Internet invading every sphere, we see websites for all kinds of causes and purposes. So, we can also say that a website can also be thought of as a digital environment capable of delivering information and solutions and promoting interaction between people, places, and things to support the goals of the organization it was created for. Components of a Website We know that a website is a collection of a webpages hosted on a web-server. These are the components for making a website. Webhost: Hosting is the location where the website is physically located. Group of webpages (linked webpages) licensed to be called a website only when the webpage is hosted on the webserver. The webserver is a set of files transmitted to user computers when they specify the website s address.. Address: Address of a website also known as the URL of a website. When a user wants to open a website then they need to put the address or URL of the website into the web browser, and the asked website is delivered by the webserver. Homepage : Home page is a very common and important part of a webpage. It is the first webpage that appears when a visitor visits the website. The home page of a website is very important as it sets the look and feel of the website and directs viewers to the rest of the pages on the website. Design : It is the final and overall look and feel of the website that has a result of proper use and integration elements like navigation menus, graphics, layout, navigation menus etc. Content : Every web pages contained on the website together make up the content of the website. Good content on the webpages makes the website more effective and attractive. The Navigation Structure: The navigation structure of a website is the order of the pages, the collection of what links to what. Usually, it is held together by at least one navigation menu. How to access Websites? When we type a certain URL in a browser search bar, the browser requests the page from the Web server and the Web server returns the required web page and its content to the browser. Now, it differs from how the server returns the information required in the case of static and dynamic websites. Types of Website 1. Static Website: In Static Websites, Web pages are returned by the server which are prebuilt source code files built using simple languages such as HTML, CSS, or JavaScript. There is no processing of content on the server (according to the user) in Static Websites. Web pages are returned by the server with no change therefore, static Websites are fast. There is no interaction with databases. Also, they are less costly as the host does not need to support server-side processing with different languages. 2. Dynamic Website: In Dynamic Websites, Web pages are returned by the server which is processed during runtime means they are not prebuilt web pages, but they are built during runtime according to the user s demand with the help of server-side scripting languages such as PHP, Node.js, ASP.NET and many more supported by the server. So, they are slower than static websites but updates and interaction with databases are possible. Dynamic Websites are used over Static Websites as updates can be done very easily as compared to static websites (Where altering in every page is required) but in Dynamic Websites, it is possible to do a common change once, and it will reflect in all the web pages. There are different types of websites on the whole internet, we had chosen some most common categories to give you a brief idea   Blogs: These types of websites are managed by an individual or a small group of persons, they can cover any topics   they can give you fashion tips, music tips, travel tips, fitness tips. Nowadays professional blogging has become an external popular way of earning money online. E-commerce: These websites are well known as online shops. These websites allow us to make purchasing products and online payments for products and services. Stores can be handled as standalone websites. Portfolio: These types of websites acts as an extension of a freelancer resume. It provides a convenient way for potential clients to view your work while also allowing you to expand on your skills or services. Brochure: These types of websites are mainly used by small businesses, these types of websites act as a digital business card, and used to display contact information, and to advertise services, with just a few pages. News and Magazines: These websites needs less explanation, the main purpose of these types of websites is to keep their readers up-to-date from current affairs whereas magazines focus on the entertainment. Social Media: We all know about some famous social media websites like Facebook, Twitter, Reddit, and many more. These websites are usually created to let people share their thoughts, images, videos, and other useful components. Educational: Educational websites are quite simple to understand as their name itself explains it. These websites are designed to display information via audio or videos or images. Portal: These types of websites are used for internal purposes within the school, institute, or any business, These websites often contain a login process allowing students to access their credential information or allows employees to access their emails and alerts. GeeksforGeeks Improve Article Tags : GBlog Web Technologies