# 🔗 https://www.python.org/downloads/

Join us in Pittsburgh, PA starting May 14, 2025. Grab your ticket today before we sell out! REGISTER FOR PYCON US! Python was created in the early 1990s by Guido van Rossum at Stichting Mathematisch Centrum in the Netherlands as a successor of a language called ABC. Guido remains Python s principal author, although it includes many contributions from others. This site hosts the "traditional" implementation of Python (nicknamed CPython). A number of alternative implementations are available as well. For most Unix systems, you must download and compile the source code. The same source code archive can also be used to build the Windows and Mac versions, and is the starting point for ports to all other platforms. All Python releases are Open Source . Historically, most, but not all, Python releases have also been GPL-compatible. The Licenses page details GPL-compatibility and Terms and Conditions. See Status of Python Versions for all an overview of all versions, including unsupported. How to verify your downloaded files are genuine Sigstore verification Starting with the Python 3.11.0, Python 3.10.7, and Python 3.9.14 releases, CPython release artifacts are signed with Sigstore. See our dedicated Sigstore Information page for how it works. OpenPGP verification Python versions before 3.14 are also signed using OpenPGP private keys of the respective release manager. In this case, verification through the release manager's public key is also possible. See our dedicated OpenPGP Verification page for how it works. See PEP 761 for why OpenPGP key verification was dropped in Python 3.14. Windows (Updated for Azure Trusted Signing, which applies for all releases chronologically from 3.14.0a1) The Windows installers and all binaries produced as part of each Python release are signed using an Authenticode signing certificate issued to the Python Software Foundation. This can be verified by viewing the properties of any executable file, looking at the Digital Signatures tab, and confirming the name of the signer. Our full certificate subject is CN = Python Software Foundation, O = Python Software Foundation, L = Beaverton, S = Oregon, C = US and as of 14th October 2024 the certificate authority is Microsoft Identity Verification Root Certificate Authority . Our previous certificates were issued by DigiCert. Note that some executables may not be signed, notably, the default pip command. These are not built as part of Python, but are included from third-party libraries. Files that are intended to be modified before use cannot be signed and so will not have a signature. macOS Installer Packages Installer packages for Python on macOS downloadable from python.org are signed with with an Apple Developer ID Installer certificate. As of Python 3.11.4 and 3.12.0b1 (2023-05-23), release installer packages are signed with certificates issued to the Python Software Foundation (Apple Developer ID BMM5U3QVKW)). Installer packages for previous releases were signed with certificates issued to Ned Deily (DJ3H93M7VJ). Other Useful Items Looking for third-party Python modules ? The Python Package Index has many of them. ? The Python Package Index has many of them. You can view the standard documentation online, or you can download it in HTML, PostScript, PDF and other formats. See the main Documentation page. Information on tools for unpacking archive files provided on python.org is available. Tip: even if you download a ready-made binary for your platform, it makes sense to also download the source. This lets you browse the standard library (the subdirectory Lib) and the standard collections of tools (Tools) that come with it. There's a lot you can learn from the source! Want to contribute? Want to contribute? See the Python Developer's Guide to learn about how Python development is managed.