# 🔗 https://medium.com/javarevisited/top-5-frameworks-to-create-cross-platform-android-and-ios-apps-in-2020-d02edf3d01f1

7 Best Frameworks & Libraries for Cross-Platform Android and iOS Apps in 2024 with links to relevant online courses and tutorials javinpaul   Follow Published in Javarevisited   7 min read   Aug 3, 2020 -- 7 Listen Share Hello guys, there is a huge demand for developers with knowledge of cross-platform mobile app development frameworks like Flutter and React Native. This is obvious as no one wants to maintain a separate code base for their Android and iOS mobile app. Having a separate code base is a maintenance nightmare because you have to work twice to put a bug fix or feature into each of your codebases. Thankfully, Flutter and React Native solve its problem by allowing you to create a native-looking mobile application for both Android and iOS devices using the same code based. While Flutter and React Native are definitely the leading cross-platform mobile app development framework, they are not the only ones as you also have frameworks like Ionic, Xamarin, and Native Script which you will learn in this article. 7 Best Frameworks to build Cross-Platform Mobile apps Without wasting any more of your time, let s dive into the best framework to build cross-platform mobile apps. We ll also look at the pros and cons of each framework and which you can use based upon your strength. I will also mention relevant courses along the way for further learning. 1. Flutter This is an excellent framework for developing cross-platform native mobile applications in 2024. Like Golang, TensorFlow, and Angular, Flutter is also from Google, which uses Dart (another programming language from Google) and provides SDK for developing a cross-platform native mobile application. It s always been challenging to release your app to different platforms like Android, iOS, and Windows Mobile, as you need to maintain a separate codebase. Flutter solves that problem by allowing you to create mobile apps for both iOS and Android devices using the same codebase. Flutter has seen a lot of growth in the last 2 years, and it's now the #1 framework for developing native mobile apps. If you have already decided to learn Flutter and looking for a resource, then I suggest you check out this Flutter & Dart   The Complete Guide [2024 Edition] by Maximilian of Acadmind on Udemy, one of my favorite courses to learn Flutter in 2024.