# 🔗 https://dropshipping.com/article/automated-dropshipping-business/

Aleksandra teaches marketing and management at various levels in High School. She writes about marketing, the economics and logistics of the dropshipping business and ecommerce in general. Automation is not a new trend, and automated dropshipping is not anything new for experienced dropshipping entrepreneurs nowadays. Simply put, automation is present in modern small and large-scale businesses worldwide. It ranges from subtle features in smart automation systems and software to more obvious implementations such as self-operating machines. With it, the work of humans is done faster, cheaper, and with less failure and more accuracy. In essence, advances like robotics and artificial intelligence result in increased productivity and shorter workweeks for people. Now, let s return to the issue in question   what is automated dropshipping, and how to automate your dropshipping store. Create Your Online Store in just 5 Minutes   For Free Pick your niche, our AI builds your store, add 10 winning products and we teach you how start selling today. Start picking your niche Choose a niche Electronics & Gadgets Fashion & Apparel Home & Garden Sport & Fitness Pets Build My Store What is Automated Dropshipping? The term automated dropshipping refers to the process of using software and tools that reduce human intervention in dropshipping tasks and operations. We have already said that seasoned dropshipping store owners tend to use dropshipping automation software. However, many new dropshippers opt for automated dropshipping from day one, as well. This means that automation is not just for e-commerce giants and experienced entrepreneurs. Now that you know that everyone can use automation, let us give you an idea of what it means in the case of dropshipping. An example of automated dropshipping would be adding products to your online store automatically rather than manually. This is just one of many examples of dropshipping automation. But more about that later. This implies the question,  If many dropshipping tasks can be automated, what exactly does that leave you doing?  But do not worry because it would be unrealistic to think that every single dropshipping task can be automated.   Read about GPT-4 for Ecommerce: What You Should Know in 2025. Build your Shopify store in minutes, not weeks Start dropshipping with a free AI Shopify store, automated supplier, winning products and free courses. If you don t make at least 1 sale, we will pay you $50 for your time. Build your free store Why Use Dropshipping Automation Software: Top 3 Benefits Of Automated Dropshipping It is very important to streamline your business processes so that your dropshipping business runs like a Swiss watch.   Check out the Top 11 Richest Dropshipping Store Owners In The World. All joking aside, you need to know the benefits of automation to be able to determine if it is suitable for you. With automation, you can: 1. Save money Yeah, you have to pay for an automation tool that you want to use. But by introducing and implementing automation into your dropshipping business, you can actually save money. Then how is it possible? We do not want to confuse you. So, we will try to put all this into plain language and give an example. Take the world s best e-commerce websites, for example. They have teams of professionals who work for them. In addition, they pay their employee s brilliant salaries. This costs money. And as a new dropshipper, you may need some help, as well. You cannot do everything alone. However, you may not be able to afford a team of professionals to help your business grow. And this is where automated dropshipping comes in. It can help you save money because you will not have to hire people to grow your business. 2. Save time Automation helps you avoid human error and save time in execution. With it, you can start and run a dropshipping business without doing all the work manually. That s to say, using dropshipping automation software enables you to complete repetitive business processes and actions with minimal to no intervention. This can save you time and let you give most of your attention to other important tasks. These tasks might include things like creating an effective dropshipping marketing strategy and delivering exceptional customer service. 3. Keep your business ahead of the competition Another benefit of automated dropshipping is that it lets you keep your business ahead of the competition. The best e-commerce businesses use automation tools. Therefore, you must also automate your online business to defend your market position, compete against those companies, and grow your business. How To Automate Your Dropshipping Store Automated dropshipping is quite useful, right? If you know how to automate some of your dropshipping business processes, you are on the right track to becoming a successful dropshipping entrepreneur. The truth is, there are many ways to automate your dropshipping store. In this article, we will discuss a few ones. 1. Product Research Knowing what to drop ship is the key to success. But finding the best dropshipping products to sell takes a lot of time. It can be quite a challenge. And even though you cannot entirely automate this process, you can use various dropshipping product research tools to ease your work. The best automated dropshipping software for product research This tool is enticing for dropshippers looking to research products and see if they are profitable on Amazon, eBay, etc. Moreover, it is a useful one, allowing you to automatically sort products by their sale price, sale rate, and competition with just a few clicks. Check our comprehensive SaleHoo Review. Niche Scraper is an excellent tool for scanning trending products across different e-commerce platforms and online marketplaces, including eBay, Amazon, Shopify, and WooCommerce. Check Niche Scraper Review. Sell the Trend can also help you find winning products for your dropshipping store. And it is regularly updated using data from AliExpress, Amazon, and Shopify stores. Ecomhunt is a curation of the best and trending dropshipping products, every day. FindNiche enables you to find winning products and the most profitable niches for your e-commerce business, depending on your selected criteria. 2. Product Import You can automate the process of adding products to your online store, including product info and pictures. In short, instead of manually importing each item to your store, you can streamline the process with automation. And the best part is that you can do so, regardless of which platform you are using. This means that whether you are using WooCommerce or Shopify, you can automate the process of adding products to your store. The best automated dropshipping software for product import: SaleHoo s Dropship Automation tool. Also, with this tool, you can add trending products from AliExpress to your Shopify store in no time. If you are interested in using the DSM tool, you can list products on your eBay or Shopify store with ease. This is a WordPress solution. As a result, it can help you import products from AliExpress to your WooCommerce dropshipping store. You can easily import trending products from various sites to your online store using Importify. And the best thing about Importify is that it is compatible with the biggest wholesalers and dropshipping suppliers. Plus, it is fully integrated with WooCommerce, Wix, Shopify, and more. Find the comprehensive overview of this tool on our Doba Dropshipping Review. If you need to import products from EU and US suppliers to Shopify or WooCommerce, Spocket can help you with that. 3. Inventory Management One of the major advantages of dropshipping is that you (as a dropshipping store owner) do not have to keep inventory in your own warehouse. But despite this, you must constantly monitor your inventory levels and ensure your products are not out of stock. This can be a time-consuming process, especially if you have high inventory levels. That s why you may want to use an inventory software system, which automates parts of the inventory management process. The best automated dropshipping software for inventory management: This tool automates many tasks required to run a successful dropshipping store, including inventory management. And it partners with multiple vendors, like eBay and AliExpress. Aside from helping you upload products to your store and do many other tasks, Inventory Source also helps you control the stock levels of your products across multiple channels, including any e-commerce platform or marketplace. 4. Order Placement This is one of the most useful ways to automate your dropshipping store. Namely, by using automated dropshipping order placement software, you do not have to manually place orders with your dropshipping suppliers. The software will automatically place orders with your suppliers when your customers buy something from your store. That way, you and your supplier will both save time on the dropshipping operations and greatly reduce the risk of errors. Many dropshipping suppliers have their own API for this process. However, if not, you can use some of the most powerful eCommerce tools for this purpose. The best automated dropshipping software for order placement We have already mentioned this dropshipping automation software. With it, you can also effectively automate the order placement process since it is an all-in-one automation tool. You should no longer waste time manually placing orders with your suppliers. Instead, let this tool automate that process for you if you are dropshipping on Facebook Marketplace, eBay, or Shopify. Learn more: Ultimate AutoDS Review. This automated dropshipping tool can help you place many orders with AliExpress suppliers within seconds. Furthermore, it has integrations with AliExpress, Shopify, WooCommerce, and more. 5. Order Tracking It would be wildly impractical to manually check each order for your customers to find expected arrival times. You might not have enough time to do all this. Luckily, order tracking is something you can automate, as well. So, it is advisable to use automated dropshipping software for order tracking. With the right automation software, order tracking details will be sent directly to your customers so they know where their orders are. The best automated dropshipping software for order tracking As it supports over 700 carriers worldwide, it may be a good fit for your dropshipping business. Shipway can lower the number of  Where is my order  e-mails with real-time order tracking updates. AfterShip claims to be the best tracking solution for your online business. Additionally, it supports 877 carriers from all over the world. Also, it works well with Shopify, Magento, BigCommerce, Squarespace, WooCommerce, etc. 6. Marketing Although you must create your dropshipping marketing strategy yourself, you can automate certain parts of the process. For instance, you can automate your e-mail marketing campaigns. You can send automated bulk e-mails quickly to increase your reach, target specific customer segments, improve customer retention, and boost sales. The best automated dropshipping software for marketing MailChimp is a must-have tool for you because it automatically sends the right message to the right people at the right moment. Just connect your dropshipping store to MailChimp to unlock amazing features that can help you streamline your e-mail marketing process. You can do so, whether you are using Shopify, BigCommerce, WooCommerce, Magento, or PrestaShop. Looking for a useful tool to automate your social media posts? Then look no further than Buffer. By using Buffer, you can schedule posts on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Pinterest. In short, with it, you can set the time and date for all of your social media posts in advance. 7. Customer service Automated dropshipping can go even further to help you automate parts of your customer service. Not only will this save you time, but it will also help you delight your customers. Do not forget that every minute your customer waits for you to respond is another minute closer to that customer switching to a competitor that s faster than you. So, it is imperative to cater to the needs of your customers to the best extent by using automation tools. The best automated dropshipping software for customer service Compatible with leading e-commerce platforms, including Shopify, WooCommerce, PrestaShop, and BigCommerce, ZenDesk is all about helping you improve the relationships you have with your customers. Long story short, this dropshipping automation software will help your customers who are experiencing common issues find a solution. However, you will have to take care of any complicated and unresolved issues your customers have. The most trusted partner to build your e-commerce business Get a prebuilt store. Discover winning products. Source at the lowest prices. Enjoy fast and reliable shipping. Start your business The bottom line Do you spend too much time running your dropshipping business? If so, you can automate your workflows with some of the best automated dropshipping tools that we have touched upon in this article. As already mentioned, even if you are a beginner, you can also integrate automation into your dropshipping site. This is a smart way for you to simplify your workflow and grow your business.