# 🔗 https://store.steampowered.com/app/252490/Rust/

About This Game The only aim in Rust is to survive. Everything wants you to die - the island s wildlife, other inhabitants, the environment, and other survivors. Do whatever it takes to last another night. Rust now enters its 11th year of continued expansion and has had over 385 content updates, with a guaranteed content patch every month. These include regular balance fixes and improvements to AI, and graphics, as well as updates to environments and the frequent addition of content such as new maps, more weapons, extra vehicles, and a plethora of utility items. Keep an eye out for regular seasonal events, as there s always something interesting or dangerous (or both) happening on the island. Updates to the game include: Procedurally generated worlds with community map editor support Host your own servers and with server-side modding support Transportation: horses, modular cars, hot air balloons, helicopters, bikes, trains, boats, and more Complex electrical, farming and automation systems Base Building and Raiding New factions, enemies, and wildlife New monuments, terrain, and areas to explore Advanced underwater areas to discover Musical instruments and the ability to perform to players Large overground and underground train networks Massive recent graphics upgrade and environment overhaul New for 2025 - The Primitive Update - Featuring new Siege Weapons, Shields, and a new game mode ...and much more EXPLORE You wake naked on a mysterious island, armed only with a rock and a torch. You ll need to brave environmental dangers and deficiencies (from heat and cold to thirst and starvation), build a shelter, eat (or be eaten), and scavenge materials. Explore the island and its abandoned settlements, mysterious monuments, and the factions that occupy them. But, above all, watch out for other survivors  BUILD Design and build bases to store your loot, defend your territory, and control the resources of the island. Research the tech tree, grow farms, command electricity, and commandeer various forms of transportation to traverse the island. Whatever it takes to get ahead. SURVIVE There are no rules in Rust but the ones you make for yourself. Craft tools, armour, and weapons to defend yourself. Cooperate with friends, make alliances, and build a settlement together. Explore the island and what s happening in it, trade with other players, or prey on them, raiding their bases and taking their hard-won goods.