# 🔗 https://www.websitebuilderexpert.com/building-websites/

#3. Pick a Website Builder To get started, you need the tools and instruments to build a website   a website builder is my top choice. Website builders help you build, customize, and manage a website, no matter your skill level. They re a user-friendly option for anyone short on time or lacking confidence when building a site from scratch. The best part is that website builders cater to all users, from beginners looking to create a personal site to industry-leading businesses. For example, Shopify is home to titans of ecommerce, such as Mattel and Gymshark. I had no trouble adding products and setting up an online store with Shopify. Source: Website Builder Expert Of course, if you want to get into the nitty gritty when building your website, you can also choose to build with a CMS, like WordPress, and organize your web hosting yourself. While this gives you total creative control, it s not as accessible or intuitive to use as a website builder, so I d only recommend this route if you have prior building experience. Why You Can Trust Us  We regularly review the best website builders on the market, combining our years of experience with our rigorous over 200 hours of testing. You can see our top five website builders below: We regularly review the best website builders on the market, combining our years of experience with our rigorous research process to share data-driven recommendations based onYou can see our top five website builders below: Swipe right to see more 0 out of 0 backward forward Wix Squarespace Hostinger Shopify GoDaddy Overall Rating 4.8 Overall Rating 4.5 Overall Rating 4.2 Overall Rating 4.2 Overall Rating 4.1 Best For Best overall website builder Best For Easiest website builder Best For Cheapest starting prices Best For Top sales features Best For Quickest setup experience Cheapest plan $17 $15.30 with code  TAKE10  Cheapest plan $16 $14.40 with code  WBE10  Cheapest plan $11.99 85% off for Black Friday: $1.95 + 3 months free (48-month term) Cheapest plan $5 Shopify Starter plan Cheapest plan $9.99 Free plan or free trial Free plan Free plan or free trial 14-day free trial Free plan or free trial 7-day free trial Free plan or free trial 3-day free trial Free plan or free trial Free plan Help & Support Options Phone (24/7), live chat, social media, help center, SEO Learning Hub, Wix Learn, community forum Help & Support Options Email (24/7), live chat, social media, help center, community forum, hire a Squarespace expert, podcasts Help & Support Options Email (24/7), live chat (24/7), social media, knowledge base, Hostinger Academy, tutorials Help & Support Options Phone (Shopify Plus users only), email, live chat (24/7), social media, help center, community forum, AI chatbot Help & Support Options Phone (24/7), live chat (24/7), social media, knowledge center, community forum, tutorials, podcasts Number of templates 900+ Number of templates 180+ Number of templates 150+ Number of templates 200+ Number of templates 200+ AI Features AI website builder AI Business Launcher AI theme assistant AI portfolio creator AI image creator & editor + more AI Features Blueprint AI AI site descriptions AI text generator AI product descriptions AI business name generator + more AI Features AI website builder AI heatmaps AI image generator AI assistant AI SEO tools + more AI Features AI website theme creator Shopify Magic Shopify Sidekick AI support + more AI Features GoDaddy Airo GoDaddy Studio AI product descriptions AI logo maker AI social calendar + more View Wix View Squarespace View Hostinger View Shopify View GoDaddy As you can see, Wix is our top-rated website builder overall. It offers over 900 stunning templates, impressive built-in website features, and a beginner-friendly drag-and-drop editor. That said, if you re looking to build an online store, Shopify s ecommerce features are unparalleled. And, for a simple editing experience, Squarespace is the easiest website builder I ve tested. Play What type of website do you want to create? Business (Including Online Store) Portfolio Informational Blog Find Your Builder Building With AI If you re not too confident when it comes to building a website or you re short on time, AI is the answer. Website builders are jumping on the AI hype   you can start up a conversation with Wix s AI chatbot, let GoDaddy Airo help you build an online presence, or use Squarespace s recently improved Blueprint AI to generate a basic site structure for you. Hostinger s AI builder performed the best overall in our testing, asking only two questions that were clear and relevant. An AI website builder is a great way to save time and energy, whether you use it to create pages or write content. But be wary of overdoing it! AI-generated websites won t be as unique as something you can craft manually. I only had to answer two questions for Hostinger to set me up with a website. The bar underneath updated as I was typing, to guide me on how much information I needed to include. Source: Website Builder Expert How Much Does It Cost To Build a Website? I know that cost is a big concern when building a website, but how much should a website cost? Thankfully, the majority of website builders offer a free plan or free trial. This is a great way to get familiar with a builder before splurging on a premium plan. If you decide to pay for a premium plan, website builders are still considerably cheaper than shelling out for a web developer or designer to build your site, which could cost hundreds or thousands of dollars. Website builder plans vary in price, costing around $3 to $30 per month (billed annually). For example, Wix has a free plan and its premium plans cost between $17 and $159 per month (billed annually). However, Web.com came out on top this year as the best value for money website builder we tested, offering an affordable entry point to building a website with its $4.99 per month Website plan, when billed annually. If you re on a budget, check out our guides to the best free website builders and cheap website builders to see what s available at your price point.