# 🔗 https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/java-programming-examples/

In this article, we will learn and prepare for Interviews using Java Programming Examples. From basic Java programs like the Fibonacci series, Prime numbers, Factorial numbers, and Palindrome numbers to advanced Java programs. Java is one of the most popular programming languages today because of its simplicity. Java programming concepts such as control statements, Arrays, Strings, Object-Oriented Programming (OOP), etc. are very important from an interview perspective as well as from exams. So, whether you are a fresher preparing for job interviews or a beginner who has covered Java Fundamentals and wants to practice Java concepts then, this Java Programming Examples page covers a wide range of Java programs in an organized manner. So, keep scrolling or bookmark this page to learn about Java (Basic to Advanced) using Java Programming Examples. Java Basic Programs This section,  Java Basic Programs,  is a starting point for anyone new to Java Programming. You ll find a collection of basic Java program examples with outputs, designed to help you learn the essential syntax, data structures, and control flow in Java. Java Pattern Programs In this section, you will get a list of Java programming language that deals with patterns. By meticulously arranging stars, numbers, or characters, you ll not only solidify your grasp of Java loops and control structures but also discover the aesthetic side of programming. Java Conversion Programs Java Conversion Programs put your coding skills to the test. Here, you ll encounter a series of exercises designed to strengthen your ability to transform data, like converting Binary to Decimal and more. Java Classes and Object Programs Here in this section, you will dive into the world of classes, acting as blueprints for objects, and objects themselves, the real-life entities. Java Methods Programs This section unlocks the secrets of methods, the building blocks of reusability in object-oriented programming. Here, you ll embark on a hands-on journey, crafting and wielding methods like a programming pro. Java Searching Programs Looking for the Java Search related programs, hence here in this section we have listed down multiple searching Java programming examples. Java 1-D Array Programs This section is all about organizing things in your Java code. Here, you ll learn how to create these  cabinets,  put things in them, and take them out whenever you need them. Java 2-D Arrays (Matrix) Programs This section dives into two-dimensional arrays, which are like spreadsheets for your code. Imagine organizing data in rows and columns, perfect for things like tables or images. Java String Programs In this section, you will dive deep into working with text in Java. You ll learn to manipulate, analyze, and modify strings, the fundamental building blocks of text data, with the help of multiple Java String programs. Java List Programs Dive into the world of Java Lists, a fundamental data structure in Java. Here, you ll learn how to store, access, and manipulate elements in a specific sequence. This section gives you to handle the ever-changing world of dates and times within your Java programs. Explore the working with calendars, timestamps, and time manipulation   essential skills for building applications that deal with deadlines, scheduling, or even historical data analysis. Java File Programs Java File Programs empowers you to interact with files in Java. This section dives deep into reading, writing, and manipulating data stored outside your program. Java Directory Programs This section navigate you to the world of directories and files in Java. Through this Java programming examples  Java Directory  section you ll master creating, manipulating, and interacting with directories. Java Exceptions and Errors Programs Through a series of hands-on exercises on Java Exceptions and Errors Handling programs, you will easily get to know how to become a good Java programmer. Java Collections Programs Java Collections is not just about storing your data in Java; So practicing Java Collections programs will help you boost your organization skills. Get deep down into lists, sets, maps, and more, and discover how to structure your data effectively to build robust and efficient Java applications. Java Multithreading Programs In this section you will get hand on Java Multithreading programs. It will help you to conquer the art of threading, a technique that lets your program handle multiple tasks seemingly at once. Java More Java Programs This section extends your coding experience with a diverse array of programs that explore more intricate functionalities. Brace yourself to tackle problems that involve algorithms, data manipulation, and object-oriented programming concepts. Conclusion In this article, we dealt with a variety of Java programming questions categorized as basic programs, control statements, Arrays, Strings, OOPs, and much more that are frequently asked in interviews and exams. Each Java program will give you a different approach to solving a particular problem in Java. If you are new to Java programming, we highly recommend you to go through our article on Java tutorial, where we ve covered all the basics and advanced topics of Java programming with practical examples and programs.